									Introduction

	Chunilal Gandhi Vidyabhavan (CGV), managed by Sarvajanik Education Society (SES) houses many manuscript collections. They are (1) Shri Shivadatta Shukla alias Prakashanandanatha collection (PSS), (2) Shastri Dinmanishankar Pustak Bhandara (SDPB), (3) Prof. V. R. Trivedi collection (VRT), (4) Prakrit manuscript collection (PRK) and (5) an undefined, uncatalogued collection kept in a cupboard of CGV library.
	PSS collection of manuscripts is already catalogued. The shorter version of the catalogue was published in two parts as Bulletin of the Chunilal Gandhi Vidyabhavan volumes 39-40 in year 1998-1999 and volumes 41-42 in year 2000-2001. The preface of these volumes mentioned that Prof. A. D. Shastri had prepared a detailed descriptive catalogue of PSS, but it had not been published. Only the tabular informative shorter catalogue was published in these two parts. We have tried our level best to locate the said unpublished descriptive catalogue of PSS in the institute as well as with the successors of Prof. A. D. Shastri. We have not been able to locate the manuscripts of the unpublished descriptive catalogue of PSS. Therefore, we have to come to a conclusion that this precious resource has been irretrievably lost.
	SDPB is a collection of 960 manuscripts collected by Pandit Dinmanishankar Shastri and donated by Prof. Mohanlal Parvatishankar Dave. According to the leaflet printed by CGV, there are supposed to be 962 manuscripts in this collection, and its catalogue is also alleged to have been published. But on physical examination, the information slips on the manuscripts are affixed till number 960 only, and there is no published catalogue with regards to SDPB till date. Therefore in the present volume, we are bringing it to publication. The manuscript bundles have an information slip on top of the cloth wrapper. This present catalogue has been prepared from those information slips. It is not clear who created these information slips, but it seems possible that the team of Prof. A. D. Shastri may have prepared these slips. Whenever the data of information slips is not clear, the physical copies of manuscripts have been consulted.
	VRT is a small collection of 27 works. The details mentioned on the information slip is also scant. PRK is a small collection of 2 works. These two catalogues are also published along with the present work. The fifth collection is in not in particularly good shape, and it is not clear whether it is a separate collection or some residues of the earlier four collections. So, we have not included it in the present publication.
	It also gives us immense pleasure to inform our readers that the these catalogues are available for download in soft copy at https://github.com/drdhaval2785/ChunilalGandhiVidyabhavan. This is the repository where the future enhancements in the catalogue would be available. CGV has also scanned all the manuscripts available in their institute. These manuscripts were earlier not available for online viewing or download. All the manuscripts digitized by CGV are made available for scholars at https://archive.org/details/@chunilal_gandhi_vidyabhavan in the month of November 2018.
	In the end of the year 2018, all the manuscripts of CGV have been physically examined and arranged according to the catalogue numbers, so as to ease the access to the physical manuscripts when needed. Mr. Paresh of CGV library has worked hard to achieve this under my constant supervision.
	I must place my sincere gratitude for the management of CGV and SES for giving me a free hand in terms of access to the resources of CGV and manuscripts for consultation. Mr. C. S. Jariwala, Chairman, SES; Mr. Kamlesh Yagnik, Vice chairman, SES, Mr. Ghanshyam Sanadhya, Secretary, SES and Honorary Director, CGV have provided me full support, without which this publication would not have been possible. I also put my appreciation on record for Prof. Bhavnaben J. Champaneri of MTB arts college for proofreading the catalogue entries made by me. At last, I would also thank my wife Hiral and my sons Dhrishat and Sugat, who have allowed me to work on this catalogue at the cost of their family time.
	I hope these catalogues would be of use to the scholars all around the globe to access their desired manuscripts. 


																Dr. Dhaval Patel, IAS
																Collector & D.M., Surat
